README.md, before:

# Monk

`monk` is a cli and daemon combo that manages articles that you want store and save for a later date.

![monk demo](./demo.gif)

Currently `monk` can store, list, and download webpages and youtube videos. 
Planned future features include: easy and automatic git integration, general date-types (not just html), 
and syncing articles across multiple computers.

## Installation

### Build from Source:

To build from source, first clone the repo (recursively!) and install Rust. To install rust, visit: https://rustup.rs/

```sh
$ cargo install --path monkd
$ cargo install --path monk-cli
$ monk --version
monk-cli 0.1.0
```

### Arch Linux

```sh
$ yay -S monk
```

## Usage

For any subcommand, simply use `--help` to view all available options and descriptions.

### Adding, downloading, and opening an article:
```sh
$ monk add "BPF packet capturing" -u https://lwn.net/Articles/750845/ -c "Cool article about fast packet capturing, pretty pictures\!" -t networking linux
╭───────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┬───────────────┬───────────────────┬─────────────╮
│          name         │                url                │                 comment                │      date     │        tags       │      id     │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────┼───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│ BPF packet capturing  │ https://lwn.net/Articles/750845/  │ Cool article about fast packet capturi │  Mar 14, 2021 │ linux, networking │  sf3yghoyj6 │
│                       │                                   │ ng, pretty pictures\!                  │               │                   │             │
╰───────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────┴───────────────┴───────────────────┴─────────────╯
$ monk open BPF
status for [BPF]: Downloading
$ monk open BPF
```
IDs only need to uniquely identify a single item. In this case, a single `n` will work.

As you can see above, `monk open` will fail until the document is fully downloaded. Downloading a document embeds as many of the assets as possible into a single html file, usually around `5MB`. In the future, there will be options to disable downloading css, js, iframes, etc.

### Searching for articles

Searching for documents in `monk` is relatively straight forward. Once a document is added, its metadata is immediately searchable.

Since the term "packet" is contained within the comment section of the article, that article is returned:
```sh
$ monk search kernel
[nzlr7svwpl] AF_XDP: https://lwn.net/Articles/750845/
processing overhead (to the point that the 4.17 **kernel** will include some painstaking enhancements to the BPF JIT

[sf3yghoyj6] BPF packet capturing: https://lwn.net/Articles/750845/
pages.  For users who count every nanosecond of packet-processing overhead (to the point that the 4.17 **kernel** will
```

Most articles are automatically downloaded and made searchable. You can manually download and index your articles:
```sh
$ monk download BPF
$ monk status BPF
[sf3yghoyj6]:
size:     285 B
index:    not indexed
offline:  Ready
$ monk index ls7d    # begin processing the contents
$ monk index status ls7d
[njrjdlbd19] Indexing
$ monk index status ls7d
[njrjdlbd19] Indexed # at this point contents can now be searched
$ monk search processing bpf interface
...
```

To simply index everything that's capable of being indexed:
```sh
$ monk index all
[all] Indexing
```

`monk` uses [tantivy](https://github.com/tantivy-search/tantivy) for its full text search needs. The [query grammar](https://docs.rs/tantivy/0.12.0/tantivy/query/struct.QueryParser.html) supports boolean logic, lexical ranges, phrases, etc. Most queries will feel a lot like dumb Google though, and words must be spelled correctly.

### Removing an article
```sh
$ monk delete <id>
```
This removes metadata, offline data, and any indexed data.

### Editing existing articles
```sh
$ monk edit <id> --name "New Name!!" --url https://xkcd.com/ -c "Brand new comment!"
```
This allows for article names, urls, and comments to be edited.

### Listing all saved articles
```sh
$ monk list
```

You can filter your articles by tags!
```sh
$ monk list society
╭─────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────┬─────────────╮
│     name    │                   url                  │        comment        │      date     │   tags  │      id     │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────┼───────────────┼─────────┼─────────────┤
│ EV problems │ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pLcqJ2 │ Chargers make boi sad │  Mar 14, 2021 │ society │  tzsfgvprl8 │
│             │ DclEg                                  │                       │               │         │             │
╰─────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────┴─────────────╯
```

### Status

Get the status of and disk space of the different parts of `monkd`:
```sh
$ monk status all
File Store [0.1.0]:
  586 B
  2 item(s)

Offline Store:
  1.07 KB
  2 item(s)

Search Index:
  16.75 KB
  2 item(s)
```
Status of an individual item:
```sh
$ monk status ls7d
[ls7d2ypeks]:
size:     239 B
index:    Indexed
offline:  Ready
```

### Stopping the daemon
```sh
$ monk stop
```

The daemon will automatically stop after the not receiving a command within `timeout` time (default: 10 seconds). This can be set in the config file.

## Youtube Videos
If you have `youtube-dl` and `ffmpeg` installed on your system, monk will automatically use youtube-dl to download videos as .mkv files.
Monk will also use any available closed captioning to make the script of the video searchable.

## Configuration

Configuration and data is stored in the preferred system folders. For example, on linux it will use the `XDG_*` environment variables to locate and create monk directories. On linux, the config file is located at `~/.config/monk/monkd.yaml`. Data, logs, and documents are stored under `~/.local/share/monk`.

To view the configuration or the default configuration for the system:

```sh
$ monk config [file]  # Actual running config
$ monk default-config # Default system config
```

Monk will automatically create any missing folders and config files that it needs.

## Backing up the Document Store

The only file `monk` needs for recreating its internal state is the `store.json` file, located on linux under: `~/.local/share/monk/store.json`. I recommend creating a git repo in wherever the `store.json` is and commiting and pushing it.

## Matrix Room
Monk has [matrix room](https://matrix.to/#/!NGQvxXyKlByDvQwXAY:matrix.org?via=matrix.org&via=jnewport.dev&via=hnitbjorg.xyz) (#monk:matrix.org) for chatting about the project.

## Thank You!

Huge thanks to the [monolith](https://github.com/Y2Z/monolith) project for their amazing web archiving library. It's works incredibly well.

Thank you to `Mr. Monk`, the protagonist of the 2002 TV Series [Monk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monk_(TV_series)) and one of my favorite fictional characters of all-time. Monk is a quirky detective afflicted with OCD, that can remember and recall even the tiniest of details. The goal of this project is to reach his level of attention to detail and capability to learn everything about an anything.

Commit message:

Added a buy me a coffee link

README.md, after:

# Monk

`monk` is a cli and daemon combo that manages articles that you want store and save for a later date.

![monk demo](./demo.gif)

Currently `monk` can store, list, and download webpages and youtube videos. 
Planned future features include: easy and automatic git integration, general date-types (not just html), 
and syncing articles across multiple computers.

## Installation

### Build from Source:

To build from source, first clone the repo (recursively!) and install Rust. To install rust, visit: https://rustup.rs/

```sh
$ cargo install --path monkd
$ cargo install --path monk-cli
$ monk --version
monk-cli 0.1.0
```

### Arch Linux

```sh
$ yay -S monk
```

## Usage

For any subcommand, simply use `--help` to view all available options and descriptions.

### Adding, downloading, and opening an article:
```sh
$ monk add "BPF packet capturing" -u https://lwn.net/Articles/750845/ -c "Cool article about fast packet capturing, pretty pictures\!" -t networking linux
╭───────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┬───────────────┬───────────────────┬─────────────╮
│          name         │                url                │                 comment                │      date     │        tags       │      id     │
├───────────────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────┼───────────────────┼─────────────┤
│ BPF packet capturing  │ https://lwn.net/Articles/750845/  │ Cool article about fast packet capturi │  Mar 14, 2021 │ linux, networking │  sf3yghoyj6 │
│                       │                                   │ ng, pretty pictures\!                  │               │                   │             │
╰───────────────────────┴───────────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────┴───────────────┴───────────────────┴─────────────╯
$ monk open BPF
status for [BPF]: Downloading
$ monk open BPF
```
IDs only need to uniquely identify a single item. In this case, a single `n` will work.

As you can see above, `monk open` will fail until the document is fully downloaded. Downloading a document embeds as many of the assets as possible into a single html file, usually around `5MB`. In the future, there will be options to disable downloading css, js, iframes, etc.

### Searching for articles

Searching for documents in `monk` is relatively straight forward. Once a document is added, its metadata is immediately searchable.

Since the term "packet" is contained within the comment section of the article, that article is returned:
```sh
$ monk search kernel
[nzlr7svwpl] AF_XDP: https://lwn.net/Articles/750845/
processing overhead (to the point that the 4.17 **kernel** will include some painstaking enhancements to the BPF JIT

[sf3yghoyj6] BPF packet capturing: https://lwn.net/Articles/750845/
pages.  For users who count every nanosecond of packet-processing overhead (to the point that the 4.17 **kernel** will
```

Most articles are automatically downloaded and made searchable. You can manually download and index your articles:
```sh
$ monk download BPF
$ monk status BPF
[sf3yghoyj6]:
size:     285 B
index:    not indexed
offline:  Ready
$ monk index ls7d    # begin processing the contents
$ monk index status ls7d
[njrjdlbd19] Indexing
$ monk index status ls7d
[njrjdlbd19] Indexed # at this point contents can now be searched
$ monk search processing bpf interface
...
```

To simply index everything that's capable of being indexed:
```sh
$ monk index all
[all] Indexing
```

`monk` uses [tantivy](https://github.com/tantivy-search/tantivy) for its full text search needs. The [query grammar](https://docs.rs/tantivy/0.12.0/tantivy/query/struct.QueryParser.html) supports boolean logic, lexical ranges, phrases, etc. Most queries will feel a lot like dumb Google though, and words must be spelled correctly.

### Removing an article
```sh
$ monk delete <id>
```
This removes metadata, offline data, and any indexed data.

### Editing existing articles
```sh
$ monk edit <id> --name "New Name!!" --url https://xkcd.com/ -c "Brand new comment!"
```
This allows for article names, urls, and comments to be edited.

### Listing all saved articles
```sh
$ monk list
```

You can filter your articles by tags!
```sh
$ monk list society
╭─────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────┬─────────────╮
│     name    │                   url                  │        comment        │      date     │   tags  │      id     │
├─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────────┼───────────────┼─────────┼─────────────┤
│ EV problems │ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pLcqJ2 │ Chargers make boi sad │  Mar 14, 2021 │ society │  tzsfgvprl8 │
│             │ DclEg                                  │                       │               │         │             │
╰─────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────┴───────────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────┴─────────────╯
```

### Status

Get the status of and disk space of the different parts of `monkd`:
```sh
$ monk status all
File Store [0.1.0]:
  586 B
  2 item(s)

Offline Store:
  1.07 KB
  2 item(s)

Search Index:
  16.75 KB
  2 item(s)
```
Status of an individual item:
```sh
$ monk status ls7d
[ls7d2ypeks]:
size:     239 B
index:    Indexed
offline:  Ready
```

### Stopping the daemon
```sh
$ monk stop
```

The daemon will automatically stop after the not receiving a command within `timeout` time (default: 10 seconds). This can be set in the config file.

## Youtube Videos
If you have `youtube-dl` and `ffmpeg` installed on your system, monk will automatically use youtube-dl to download videos as .mkv files.
Monk will also use any available closed captioning to make the script of the video searchable.

## Configuration

Configuration and data is stored in the preferred system folders. For example, on linux it will use the `XDG_*` environment variables to locate and create monk directories. On linux, the config file is located at `~/.config/monk/monkd.yaml`. Data, logs, and documents are stored under `~/.local/share/monk`.

To view the configuration or the default configuration for the system:

```sh
$ monk config [file]  # Actual running config
$ monk default-config # Default system config
```

Monk will automatically create any missing folders and config files that it needs.

## Backing up the Document Store

The only file `monk` needs for recreating its internal state is the `store.json` file, located on linux under: `~/.local/share/monk/store.json`. I recommend creating a git repo in wherever the `store.json` is and commiting and pushing it.

## Matrix Room
Monk has [matrix room](https://matrix.to/#/!NGQvxXyKlByDvQwXAY:matrix.org?via=matrix.org&via=jnewport.dev&via=hnitbjorg.xyz) (#monk:matrix.org) for chatting about the project.

## Supporting
You can support monk by committing code, solving issues, or by [buying us a coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/lwarfield) (goes to both lwarfield and fdarling)

## Thank You!

Huge thanks to the [monolith](https://github.com/Y2Z/monolith) project for their amazing web archiving library. It's works incredibly well.

Thank you to `Mr. Monk`, the protagonist of the 2002 TV Series [Monk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monk_(TV_series)) and one of my favorite fictional characters of all-time. Monk is a quirky detective afflicted with OCD, that can remember and recall even the tiniest of details. The goal of this project is to reach his level of attention to detail and capability to learn everything about an anything.
